Add refresh, flush, clear cache, and notifications documentation for index management in Dashboards (#4207)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/im-dashboards/notifications.md

---
layout: default
title: Notification settings
parent: Index management in Dashboards
nav_order: 60
---

# Notification settings

> You can configure default notification settings for index operations globally on the **Notification settings** page. If you need to override any of the settings, you can also configure notification settings for individual index operations.

Reviewer: configuring notification settings for individual index operation will not override global setting, it is an additional setting. prefer to say `If you need to add additional settings`

## Configuring default notification settings

On the **Notification settings** page, you can configure the default notification settings for the following index operations that may take longer time to complete:

- Open
- Reindex
- Split
- Shrink
- Clone
- Force merge

To get started, from the top menu, select **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Index Management**. Under **Index Management**, select **Notification settings**.

You can choose to be notified when the operation has completed or failed. Additionally, you can select the notification channels for this notification, as shown in the following image:

![Default notification settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/notifications.png)

If you don't have permissions to view notification settings, you will not be able to view the default settings. 
{: .note}

## Configuring notification settings for an individual operation

> You can view or override default notification settings when you perform an indexing operation. For example, if you want to configure additional notification for a reindex operation, perform the following steps:

Reviewer 2: @kolchfa-aws FYI: In an individual operation flow, it will only allow users to add additional notification settings, it won't remove or overwrite what's being set by the default notification settings.

1. From the top menu, select **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Index Management**.
1. Under **Index Management**, select **Indices**.
1. Select the index you want to reindex.
1. In the **Actions** dropdown list, select **Reindex**.

> 1. After selecting all reindex options, expand **Advanced settings**. Under **Notify on reindex status**, default notifications are listed. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. After selecting all reindex options, expand **Advanced settings**. Under **Notifications**, default notifications are listed. 
```
![image](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/assets/13493605/d9d7e828-ee91-46f2-a5c8-e0282af1806b)

    
    If you don't have permissions to view notification settings, you will not be able to view the default settings. 
    {: .note}
1. To receive additional notifications, select **Send additional notifications**, as shown in the following image.

    ![Individual notification settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/notification-individual.png)
1. Select the options to be notified when the operation has failed or completed.
1. In the **Notification channels** dropdown list, select the channel where you want to be notified. If you want to configure a new notification channel, select **Manage channels**.

> 1. Select the **Reindex** button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Select the **Reindex** button.

Please make sure the dashboards-notification plugin has been enabled in your OpenSearch Dashboards. 
    {: .note}
```

---
layout: default
title: Notification settings
parent: Index management in Dashboards
nav_order: 60
---

# Notification settings

> You can configure default notification settings for index operations globally on the **Notification settings** page.  You can also configure additional notification settings for individual index operations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can configure default notification settings for index operations globally on the **Notification settings** page. You can also configure additional notification settings for individual index operations.
```

## Configuring default notification settings

On the **Notification settings** page, you can configure the default notification settings for the following index operations that may take longer time to complete:

- Open
- Reindex
- Split
- Shrink
- Clone
- Force merge

To get started, from the top menu, select **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Index Management**. Under **Index Management**, select **Notification settings**.

You can choose to be notified when the operation has completed or failed. Additionally, you can select the notification channels for this notification, as shown in the following image:

![Default notification settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/notifications.png)

If you don't have permissions to view notification settings, you will not be able to view the default settings. 
{: .note}

## Configuring notification settings for an individual operation

> You can view default notification settings when you perform an indexing operation. You can also set up additional notifications. For example, if you want to configure additional notification for a reindex operation, perform the following steps:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can view default notification settings when you perform an indexing operation. You can also set up additional notifications. For example, if you want to configure an additional notification for a reindex operation, perform the following steps:
```

1. From the top menu, select **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Index Management**.
1. Under **Index Management**, select **Indices**.
1. Select the index you want to reindex.
1. In the **Actions** dropdown list, select **Reindex**.
1. After selecting all reindex options, expand **Advanced settings**. Under **Notifications**, default notifications are listed. 
    
    If you don't have permissions to view notification settings, you will not be able to view the default settings. 

>     {: .note}

Reviewer 4: Insert line space after note.

Author: The line space doesn't matter in this case. It's spaced correctly whether or not the line is there. But I'm inserting spaces everywhere because then the list has the same spacing :)

1. To receive additional notifications, select **Send additional notifications**, as shown in the following image.

>     ![Individual notification settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/notifications-individual.png)

Reviewer 4: Insert line space after image

1. Select the options to be notified when the operation has failed or completed.
1. In the **Notification channels** dropdown list, select the channel where you want to be notified. If you want to configure a new notification channel, select **Manage channels**.
    
    To configure a new notification channel, ensure the `dashboards-notification` plugin is enabled in your OpenSearch Dashboards. 

>     {: .note}

Reviewer 4: Insert line space after note

---
layout: default
title: Notification settings
parent: Index management in Dashboards
nav_order: 60
---

# Notification settings

> You can configure default notification settings for index operations globally on the **Notification settings** page. You can also configure additional notification settings for individual index operations.

Reviewer 5: "You can configure global default notification settings for index operations"?

## Configuring default notification settings

> On the **Notification settings** page, you can configure the default notification settings for the following index operations that may take longer time to complete:

Reviewer 5: This reads as though it should be two sentences, with the first sentence ending at "operations". Also, that may take longer than what (complete the implied comparison)?

> On the **Notification settings** page, you can configure the default notification settings for the following index operations that may take longer time to complete:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
On the **Notification settings** page, you can configure the default notification settings for the following index operations that may take longer to complete:
```

- Open
- Reindex
- Split
- Shrink
- Clone
- Force merge

> To get started, from the top menu, select **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Index Management**. Under **Index Management**, select **Notification settings**.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To get started, select **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Index Management** from the top menu. Under **Index Management**, select **Notification settings**.
```

> You can choose to be notified when the operation has completed or failed. Additionally, you can select the notification channels for this notification, as shown in the following image:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can choose to be notified when the operation has completed or failed. Additionally, you can select the notification channels for this notification, as shown in the following image.
```

![Default notification settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/notifications.png)

> If you don't have permissions to view notification settings, you will not be able to view the default settings. 

Reviewer 5: Singular "permission"?

{: .note}

## Configuring notification settings for an individual operation

You can view default notification settings when you perform an indexing operation. You can also set up additional notifications. For example, if you want to configure an additional notification for a reindex operation, perform the following steps:

1. From the top menu, select **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Index Management**.

1. Under **Index Management**, select **Indices**.

1. Select the index you want to reindex.

> 1. In the **Actions** dropdown list, select **Reindex**.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Select **Reindex** from the **Actions** dropdown list.
```

1. After selecting all reindex options, expand **Advanced settings**. Under **Notifications**, default notifications are listed. 
    

>     If you don't have permissions to view notification settings, you will not be able to view the default settings. 

Reviewer 5: Singular "permission"?

    {: .note}

1. To receive additional notifications, select **Send additional notifications**, as shown in the following image.

    ![Individual notification settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/notifications-individual.png)

> 1. Select the options to be notified when the operation has failed or completed.

Reviewer 5: I'm unclear of the meaning here. Should "option" be singular, or should it be a noun other than "options"?

> 1. In the **Notification channels** dropdown list, select the channel where you want to be notified. If you want to configure a new notification channel, select **Manage channels**.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Select a channel from the **Notification channels** dropdown list. If you want to configure a new notification channel, select **Manage channels**.
```

>     To configure a new notification channel, ensure the `dashboards-notification` plugin is enabled in your OpenSearch Dashboards. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    To configure a new notification channel, ensure the `dashboards-notification` plugin is enabled in OpenSearch Dashboards. 
```
